PD-1926 / 25.10 / Pd 1926 update boot environments content (#3737)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/SystemSettings/ManageBootEnvironSCALE.md

* **Space**: shows boot environment size.
* **Keep**: indicates whether or not TrueNAS deletes this boot environment when a system update does not have enough space to proceed.

Use the icons row to take different actions for a boot environment.

### Activating a Boot Environment

The option to activate a boot environment only displays for boot entries not set to **Active**

Activating an environment means the system boots into the point of time saved in that environment the next time it is started.

> Click on the activate icon for an inactive boot environment to open the **Activate** dialog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the <span class="iconify" data-icon="mdi:check-decagram">Activate</span> (Activate) icon for an inactive boot environment to open the **Activate** dialog.
```

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/SystemSettings/ActivateBootEnvironmentSCALE.png" alt="Activate Boot Environment" id="Activate Boot Environment" >}}

Click **Confirm**, and then click **Activate**.

The **System Boot** screen status changes to **Reboot** and the current **Active** entry changes from **Now/Reboot** to **Now**, indicating that it is the current boot environment but it is not used on the next system restart (boot operation).

### Cloneing a Boot Environment

Cloning copies the selected boot environment into a new inactive boot environment that preserves the **boot-pool** state at the clone-creation time.

> Click the clone icon to open the **Clone Boot Environment** window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the <span class="iconify" data-icon="mdi:content-copy">Clone</span> (Clone) icon to open the **Clone Boot Environment** window.
```

* **Space**: shows boot environment size.
* **Keep**: indicates whether or not TrueNAS deletes this boot environment when a system update does not have enough space to proceed.

> Click the icon options for a boot environment to manage that environment.

Reviewer: Reviewed a 25.04 environment and the options icon method no longer exists. There's a row of icons with one icon per action.
```suggestion
Use the icons row to take different actions for a boot environment.
```

> ### Activating a Boot Environment

Reviewer: The more_vert icon is incorrect for this version - there's a different icon used for the Activate option.

Click **Confirm**, and then click **Activate**.

The **System Boot** screen status changes to **Reboot** and the current **Active** entry changes from **Now/Reboot** to **Now**, indicating that it is the current boot environment but it is not used on the next system restart (boot operation).

### Cloneing a Boot Environment

Cloning copies the selected boot environment into a new inactive boot environment that preserves the **boot-pool** state at the clone-creation time.

> Click the <span class="material-icons">more_vert</span> for a boot environment, and then select **Clone** to open the **Clone Boot Environment** window.

Reviewer: The more_vert icon is incorrect for this version - there's a different icon used for the Clone option.

The **Source** field displays the boot environment you are cloning. If the displayed name is incorrect, close the window and select the correct boot environment to clone.

Click **Save**.

### Deleting a Boot Environment

Deleting a boot environment removes it from the ** Boot Environment** screen and the boot menu.

> Click the <span class="material-icons">more_vert</span> for a boot environment, and then select **Delete** to open the **Delete** dialog.

Reviewer: The more_vert icon is incorrect for this version - there's a different icon used for the Delete option.

Select **Confirm** and then click **Delete**.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/SystemSettings/DeleteBootEnvironmentSCALE.png" alt="Delete Boot Environment" id="Delete Boot Environment" >}}

You cannot delete the default or any active entries.
Because you cannot delete an activated boot entry, this option does not show for activated boot environments.
To delete the active boot environment, first, activate another entry and then delete the environment you want to remove.

### Keeping a Boot Environment

By default, TrueNAS prunes boot environments when the boot pool runs out of remaining storage space.

> **Keep** toggles with the **Unkeep** option, and they determine whether the TrueNAS updater can automatically delete this boot environment if there is not enough space to proceed with an update.

Reviewer: The more_vert icon is incorrect for this version - there's a different icon used for the Keep option.
